# 1984 Book Review (7th grade reading blurb archive)

Hello there, this reading blurb is on a google doc now, because I have so much I want to say about the book 1984.  (this one is a doozy)

So, this week since we were doing the dystopian unit, I wanted to read 1984, as it gets referenced now online, a lot. People will use every excuse to talk about this book, and talk about how this is what our society is currently like, even though that isn't true. 

1984, or as far as I have read, talks about a fictional society in the year 1984 (the author, George Orwell wrote this book in the 1950’s!). In this society, people are constantly monitored by all sorts of ministries.  Our main character, he has a secret diary that he writes in, in a corner that his all seeing tv cannot see in. 

This brings us to our first point, the all seeing tv. 1984 was written in the 1950s, where tv was the most common form of entertainment, and it would make sense to use the TV as the main control method, as many people already have one, and people can't get away from it. Looking at 2022, this logic still works, and it’s a shame that it does. You may think that in 2022, this surely can't be happening right? No. 

Instead of having an all seeing tv, we have smartphones and computers. An average smartphone sends about 50 mb of information, just to their manufacturers. Even more to apps that you have installed, like facebook or tiktok.  The information sent isn't a problem, the fact that this information is used to advertise, and most importantly, brainwash people is the problem. 

Media isn't free now, just like in 1984, but instead of proof-readers sent by the government, we have AI sorting through all your documents and information(Just as I am writing this document, an AI is looking through this google doc to see if I have any information that Google doesn't like [1]) This is claiming that they are using it for good, but who knows, they might just remove this document because I am talking bad to them. 


In trying to citate that point, it took me a lot longer than you would think. Google has removed this information from searches on google.com, and you cannot access it easily. You may also know during the 2016 and 2020 elections that Google along with other search engines got caught changing search results to sway to their side.

Going back to the book 1984, another prominent point was the children next door, when the main character goes to fix their sink, he is threatened by the neighbors children with fake pistols. While reading, I noticed something strange. The main character isn't even phased by it. He just thinks that it was annoying, and goes back to whatever he was doing, only with a few remarks about how this is how the kids are brainwashed. 

The kids are sad because they couldn't see the hanging in the park, something that George Orwell wanted people to be caught off by. But this isn't even surprising, it really is amazing how de-sentivsised we are to tragic news. While we definitely are not on the same level that George Orwell is describing, we sure are close. Nowadays, when something bad happens, like someone dying, we just stay silent for a second, and do whatever we were doing. 

In 1984, we have a brief part  that showed a revolutionary,and his ideologies, free speech, free whatever. What are the people’s reactions to this? Hatred, not to the ministries and big brother, but towards the revolutionaries. People are brainwashed to a point, where they forget what life was like before the censorship happened.

Take a look at this meme (yes i know it's ifunny) People are forgetting what being able to say whatever they wanted was like. In social studies, we had a talk about how after the red scare, the American political spectrum greatly shruk, people were forbidden to talk about a government that was communist, or fashist, without the constant fear of being ousted and put to shame. 

Have you ever wondered what would happen if the US had a communist government, or perhaps something else? Well, that will never happen, because people are now brainwashed to feel against these ideologies. 

Remember when Texas threatened to secede from the US? We shunted them, such a stupid idea (even though it was kinda stupid), we forgot why we even are here in the first place, we thought that the British rule was not good, so we revolted and became independent. People forgot these roots that we were born on, and that's what happened in 1984, people forgot why we even have a government, or have the ability to talk, or think for ourselves.


Why do we have a government? 
So that if we all can be protected, and if we don't like it, we can leave. 

Why do we talk? 

So that when we have an idea that we don't like, we can disagree.

Why do we have separate brains, instead of one shared one?

So that we can be different, and not be what other people want us to be. 


This went pretty far off from the book, but I think a reflection on 1984 and our current society is far more valuable and interesting than a summary of 1984. 


