# Goverment Spying (7th grade argument writing piece)

# Government Spying

The internet is something that most people depend on, and cannot live without.
There is something that most people do not realise about the internet.

The government has too much control over our internet.

There are also too many ways that the government tries to take control of the
internet. The main ways are: Using digital home technology to spy and catch
criminals, Seizing and removing domains and Passing bills disguised as something
else.

In this, you may hear me talking about something called a subpoena a lot. A
subpoena is when the government sends an order to a company for data. They can
do this whenever they want, and there are penalties for not complying with the
subpoena.

# Smart homes

Smart homes are the future of home automation, and they are also the future of
digital spying.Big companies use many ways to spy on you, such as subpoenas.

Smart homes are a wonderful thing, have you ever had this experience, you are in
bed, and would like to go to sleep, but you have to get out of your comfy bed to
turn off that light. You know that you can't sleep with that light on, but you
don't want to get out of bed. Well, What's the solution?

Smart homes

Or at least the concept in theory.

Smart homes are an easy way to be able to do things remotely, and easily. I have
a few in my home, and it's always nice to be able to yell: “Hey google! Turn off
the bedroom lights” across the room without having to get off of the bed.

But that's the good side, there's always another side.

You may think that it is convenient to be able to yell commands, at any time,
and anywhere inside of the house, but it is actually a privacy nightmare.

As someone who has a Google home myself, I can say from experience that it
always needs to be connected to the internet. Without the internet, it will
simply not work. In fact, my nest hub has 500mB’s of storage for the system, and
nothing else.

Why is this important? According to researchers, Android takes a lot of system
data every day, up to 50MB (Leith). With the Google Home system always on, there
is nothing that is stopping Google from recording all of our conversations and
uploading them to the Google Servers.

Many people will just respond by saying: “ Just flip the switch at the back of
the Google home to mute its mic when not in use.”

With this, there is nothing that guarantees that Google is still not accessing
your microphone after. A software switch is also hackable since the people who
will buy a smart home will not know how to secure their network.

Even if Google home does not record everything, other things are still recorded.
For example, your searches are recorded to google, and if you are using the
google voice recognition feature, it is stored.

So let's get back to the government, let's say that your Smart home is recording
everything that you have said.

When you say anything to your smart home, it is sent to Amazon servers. Although
some may say at the setup screen that your data is anonymous, there is no
evidence proving that.

The company that you choose now has full control over your data, they can choose
to not do anything with your data, and simply process it, or they can record
that data and hold it forever.

Since this is a grey area, since no independent people have audited the servers,
there is no way of knowing if their statements are true. Let's say that you may
have committed a crime (possibly murder, or tax evasion ), and the government
finds that there is enough data to start a case, but not enough evidence to get
to a verdict.

First, they subpoena Amazon, and of course, daddy Bezos gladly agrees, since
they don't want to get their domain seized. (Something that we will talk about
later)

Amazon gladly hands over the data, since they are legally responsible for giving
that data to the government. If Amazon does not give the data, there are
consequences that they will have to pay.

Now let's put you in the shoes of the CEO of Amazon. Would you rather lose your
entire US market where almost 60% of the people use Amazon as an E-commerce
platform(Sharma) trying to defend someone that you don’t even know, or hand over
the data, a quick and simple transfer that could literally take seconds.

That is up for you to choose, would you like to defend someone that you have
never heard of before, and have no relationships with that person and lose most
of your business, or just hand over the data. This is a no brainer for most
people, and also what most big companies choose.

The government can just bend wrists so that they can get what they want, and
putting a wiretap into your house directly is basically an invasion of privacy,
and an invitation for them to judge your music choices.

When the government has access to all of your data, it means that they can spy
on your homes, with the mask of saying that it is used to catch criminals, but
really what they are doing is mass surveillance.

You probably know about 1984, that really funny book that people keep referring
to on Reddit.

In that book, a prominent thing in the first few pages is a Telly that has a
camera and a microphone to look into everyone’s home, so that they can protect
people from those dirty people who dare to think freely.

Well guess what, that's exactly what we have.

These Google Homes can watch telly, they have a microphone constantly sending
data to Google, and a camera to send data so that they can look at everything
you do, and judge you for it.

Even though these don't send data directly to the government (Citation Needed),
they are basically a few days away from being sent to the government with a
subpoena.

This is one of the fundamental ways that the government can control the online
and real world. By using subpoenas, they can get any information that they want,
and they can use it to incriminate someone.

# Seizing Domains/Websites

Websites and domains are the heart of the internet, and the government has too
much control over this internet.

The online world is usually considered to be something that is not controlled by
traditional governments. But that is actually not the case, the FBI along with
other bioluminescent three letter agencies(FBI,CIA,NSA)can seize a domain, and
stop them from working, or sometimes, turn it into a honeypot. (Kenny) Check out
the citation for an explanation of what a honeypot is.

First of all, let's go over why and how the government can do this. When a
government official tries to seize a website, they have to make a warrant, then
arrest the person in real life, and take over their servers.

This sounds pretty hard, but it is pretty easy.

But what's the problem?

This is something that sounds like that should be done, protecting Americans and
other people in the online world from bad websites. That's the good part.

The bad part is that they can do this to any website on American soil, and other
countries as well in the Fourteen eyes, and other allies of NATO (Brathwaite).

The Fourteen eyes, along with variations like the Five and the nine eyes is a
set of alliances that are friends with each other.

Let's say that one day, Nancy Pelosi does a little too much trolling (Moynihan),
and Google publishes an article on what she has done. She gets mad and bribes
someone in the FBI to take down Google for Defamation, along with bribing the
judge to pass the warrant.

Now, the FBI storms into the Google headquarters, shoots their servers, and
tracks everyone's searches to make sure that they are not searching for things
about this event, and suppress everything that has happened.

So now, when people search up why Nancy Pelosi suddenly has 20 new Private jets
on google, Google will just say that it's because she is the best person at
making money and that you suck.

Or it will say that this domain has been seized by the FBI, whichever one Nancy
was feeling that day.

Now that was an exaggerated example,

Just recently, a website called raidforums, which specialises in leaking
people’s personal data. This included things like DOB, credit card numbers, and
other things.

This might not sound too bad, but let's go deeper into the details.

https://raid.lol was a website that was owned and hosted by a Portuguese man,
living in Portugal. What's the problem you may ask, well this website was seized
by the American police.

Raid.lol was an illegal website, but that is not the important part. It is fine
for the government to try and shut websites down that are committing crime.

The big problem is that the American government has the ability to shut down
websites that are not hosted on it’s soil, and that they can do this when they
feel like, and they do not have to announce it.

This was not even an American website, but they were still able to take it down.
This is the problem.

The owner of this website, a Portuguese man living in Portugal, has been charged
with 6 criminal offences, and now is being shipped off to America so that he can
live the rest of his life there in prison.

Now let's say that you are a person living in France. You used to live in the
US, and you found out about all the things that the US government does. How do
you fight against it? Well, you make a website and host it yourself. This way,
the hosting services cannot get to you, and you can keep fighting.

One day, the US government gets mad that you are gaining traction, and revealing
how bad the spying situation is.

You might think to yourself: “Those Suckers in the US government, they can’t get
to me, I live in the french land, that's like 7000km away (Dong).”

Well, what do you think the US government will do? Suck it up? Never. When Uncle
Sam wants something, he GETS that thing.

France is a part of the 14 eyes, so all the US government has to do is just call
the French police, and get them to barge into your house, shoot your servers and
make them into a honeypot.

Even if you live in another country, you are not safe.

The US government now has the power to take down any website that they wish.
Don't you think that that's a little much power for a single country based
around corrupt politicians to have?

When the US government sees something that it does not like, they can now just
remove it.

The second way that the US government can control people is by removing things
on the internet that it does not agree with, making it harder to get clean
information, and spread information.

# Kids Online Safety Act

Bills and amendments are used to better the world that we live in, but are they
really better?

Kids Online Safety Act (KOSA) (Congress.gov) is a new act that is supposed to
“help” children be safer on the internet, while really it's just a way for
companies to spy on you, and take more information.

“But think of the kids” No. we don't need you guys to think of us. Every time I
see someone use “ think of the kids!” in an argument where a person is using
this, it is very easy to find what they mean.

This KOSA act is another one of these: “Think of the kids!” act, where there is
the main motive and a side motive. Let's go over what these mean.

Oftentimes, when you are trying to argue or critique something, there is a main
motive and a secondary motive. The first and the secondary motive often have
nothing to do with each other.

100% of the time, the main motive is not very clearly stated and not mentioned
at all in any of the press releases and is hidden away, requiring some digging
to find. These motives are often very shady. From the people’s perspective, it
may seem like a secondary motive, but it really is the main motive.

The secondary motive is what is shown to the people, this often is easy to agree
with, and most people have no reason to not believe it. Even people like me who
challenge everything will most likely still agree with the secondary motive.

Here's where these come together. When people are presenting their argument,
they put their secondary motive first and then hide away their main motive. This
way, most people will blindly believe that the person is trying to do good, and
then they miss what the person is actually doing behind the whole thing.

For example, let's say that a person is arguing to ban Cheetos in school because
they are too unhealthy. That's something that most people can get behind, and
most will side with the person. That's the secondary motive, to help the
children by removing fat from heavy food.

But let's say that now that the Cheetos are banned, and the children have no
more. The only option for snacks is the “Queen’s crunchy cracky chomping snacker
jack delights”, which are supposedly healthy. But, if you dig a little deeper,
oftentimes, the person who is arguing for the Cheetos to get banned is actually
the owner of the company who sells the “Queen’s crunchy cracky chomping snacker
jack delights”. Now, you see the main motive. Can you guess what it is?

That's right, the main motive, that most people don't see, is in fact to get a
monopoly on the school snacks.

Now keep that in mind while we go over the KOSA.

The KOSA is a bill that promises to help children be safer online (by basically
crippling big companies and forcing them to add child protection features),
something that most people can get behind. Even someone like me. I know a few
people that accidentally searched up something, and something 18+ came up. This
is a great thing to add until you see the main motive.

This bill will require companies to include child protection features, and a big
one is a feature where parents will be easily able to access + view their
children's data.

Let's imagine that this bill is in action for a second. Signal, one of the best
privacy chat apps that encrypt all of your data (Signal Encryption) so that
nobody can see it, will be required to add parental features that allow parents
to see their children's data in a plain text format.

This breaks many things that most platforms offer. The biggest one is signal,
where all things are end-to-end encrypted, so that means that Nobody else,
except for the person that it is being sent to can see the messages, not even
Signal. Think of it as steel, wielded together a letter with a lock on it. Only
The person that sent it, and the person that will receive it has a key. No
middleman can open it.

Some may argue that encryption will allow children to be groomed on the
internet. The main reason for this bill is to “protect the children”. However,
encryption does not mean that no-one can see it, it just means that the people
that can see it are limited. Children when they identify a “spooky bob (discord
moderator as gen z knows it)”, they can still show it to a trusted adult, and
the trusted adult will be able to respond properly.

When the “spooky bob” is caught by law enforcement, the child can still
screenshot and use it as evidence. The people that are cut out by encryption are
the hackers, and the company themselves, this removes the possibility of the
company reading your messages and selling data and whatnot.

There are still ways to monitor your child, even if they use Signal. You can ask
your child to show you their phone, you can limit people that they can chat to,
you can limit the amount of time that they spend on Signal. It's not like when
your child is having a conversation on the playground, you will always be able
to listen. If you feel like you have the need to know what your child is doing
24/7, then it might be time to get some help.

Getting back to KOSA, allowing easy monitoring of children breaks so many things
that platforms offer for privacy, and allows the government easier access to
your information, because it is no longer in that steel envelope, in fact, there
isn't even an envelope, you just send the letter out there for anyone to see.

The next in line for this bill is that everything is enabled by DEFAULT.
(Section 4 P.4 congress.gov) Companies can abuse the fact that they can assume
everyone is a minor, and not offer this steel envelope service, Turning basic
security from a “Forced”, where everyone is encrypted and there isn't a way to
turn it off. To “Opt-In by verifying your age”. So now, most non-tech savvy
people won't know to turn it on, and now when the government subpoenas signal
(Signal Subpoena), instead of getting only Unix time, they get all of your
information.

Section 4 part 3 states: “3) NOTICE TO MINORS.—A covered platform shall provide
clear and conspicuous notice to a minor when parental tools are in effect.
(congress.gov)”

Now let's zoom in on that, It says, “Shall provide clear and conspicuous notice
to a MINOR when parental tools are in effect.”

This builds on top of the last one, where it's opt in. The website only has to
notify minors that the features are turned off, and not normal people. This
creates a loophole where a service can deem everyone a minor, remove their
security(Because all of this security costs a lot!), and only notify a small
subset of people. If the government catches them doing this, which is not very
likely since the people are still asking how to get on Hotmail (Grassly &&
Twitter). They can just say that those were the only people that they believed
were minors, and get away without even a slap on the wrist.

Now we get to the topic of: “What if I am an adult and I do all these amazing
features”? Well, you have to provide a government ID to get these, which will
make privacy from the government harder. This also means that you will have to
give your ID to more websites, making there more points of ingress where
something can leak, and all of your important information gets leaked on the
internet for 4chan to look at.

Let's try it now. Ask a parent to take out their government ID each time they
want to access normal youtube, Netflix, or Hulu, if they don't give their ID,
they can only watch children's things, which contains a 10-hour loop of Peppa
pig snorting. I am 100% sure that they will be super mad, and nobody likes it.

Let's say that the person does give you their ID, you check it, looks good. But
now, you have to keep this, and oh no! You lost it while trying to buy gummy
worms at the convenience store because you didn't realise that it came out of
your pockets when you tried to pull cash out of that pocket.

That convenience store guy picks it up when you leave, and then takes pictures
of it and posts it on 4can.

_BEGIN 4CHAN POST_

ANONYMOUS

> be me wagie working at convenience store some 13 year old walk into my store
> grabs a bag of gummy worms that i'm pretty sure someone put a real worm into
> goes to the counter to buy takes forever to pull cash out of pocket

> 10 pm im released from waige cage see ID card on the floor anons, y’all want
> this?

_END 4CHAN POST_

This is basically what happens when you give your ID to other websites, they
take your information, and either lose it or sell it to someone else, or they
lose it, and someone else sells it.

You see why this is not a good case. Nobody wins, except for the government. The
children are given a dumbed down version of the internet that makes them worse
at navigating the digital world, and more likely to get scammed. For adults, you
get a less secure and private version of the internet.

The only person that does win is the government, as now that they can say that
they helped children, and get to take our personal data and use it for whatever
they like.

The third way that the government can control the internet is by passing bills
that are too wide. Bills like KOSA are big blanket bills that control what
happens in the online world too widely.

https://odysee.com/@AlphaNerd:8/the-kids-online-safety-act-will-be-a:2

This video is amazing at explaining some of my points

# Mitigations

After reading this, you may be wondering, how can i Avoid all of this tracking
and 1984?

Here's a really simple way to do it, just answer this really simple question.

Do you want to continue using technology?

Yes:

There is no mitigation, even if you move to the forest cabins and libreboot a
thinkpad and store all of wikipedia and your homework folder on your Petabyte
drives.

The government will find a way to control you. The only way is to become amish
and pump butter by yourself instead of with online catgirls

No: Go be Amish and leave technology behind.

Conclusion

The government has many ways to control and spy on the internet and Internet
connected devices. With people effectively volunteering to put a wiretap into
their homes, to the government passing bills and using their military forces to
control what people can see.

# Works Cited

Brathwaite on 14 eyes, Shimon. “Fourteen eyes surveillance alliance explained —
SecurityMadeSimple.” SecurityMadeSimple, 29 January 2021,
https://www.securitymadesimple.org/cybersecurity-blog/fourteen-eyes-surveillance-explained.
Accessed 18 April 2022. Congress.gov, Congress. “Text - S.3663 - 117th Congress
(2021-2022): Kids Online Safety Act.” Congress.gov, 16 February 2022,
https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-bill/3663/text. Accessed 11
April 2022. Congress Website. “Text - S.3663 - 117th Congress (2021-2022): Kids
Online Safety Act.” Congress.gov, 16 February 2022,
https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-bill/3663/text#id33d675aceddd4e1cb7a05ca837ab0347.
Accessed 11 April 2022. Golgowski, Nina. “Man Horrified That Army Blew Up Mom's
Body After It Was Donated For Research.” HuffPost, 1 August 2019,
https://www.huffpost.com/entry/army-blew-up-mom-body-donated-research_n_5d431279e4b0acb57fc92631.
Accessed 20 April 2022. Grassly. “Twitter mocks Mark Zuckerburg and the senators
questioning him.” Daily Mail, 12 April 2018,
https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-5604369/Twitter-mercilessly-mocks-Facebook-CEO-senators-questioning-data-harvesting-scandal.html.
Accessed 11 April 2022. Leith. “Mobile Handset Privacy: Measuring The Data iOS
and Android Send to Apple And Google.” School of Computer Science and
Statistics, 25 March 2021, https://www.scss.tcd.ie/doug.leith/apple_google.pdf.
Accessed 20 April 2022. Moynihan on Nancy Pelosi's Trolling, Lydia. “Nancy
Pelosi makes millions off tech stocks – and scoffs at push to ban congressional
trades.” New York Post, 7 January 2022,
https://nypost.com/2022/01/07/nancy-pelosi-makes-30-million-from-tech-stocks-scoffs-at-push-to-ban-congressional-trades/.
Accessed 18 April 2022. Section 4 P.4. “Text - S.3663 - 117th Congress
(2021-2022): Kids Online Safety Act.” Congress.gov, 16 February 2022,
https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-bill/3663/text#id508B7408A58742F4A11213E882EBA2A7.
Accessed 11 April 2022. signal.org. “Signal's ways of encrypting data.”
https://signal.org/docs/, Signal Developers. Signal Subpoena. “Grand jury
subpoena for Signal user data, Central District of California (again!).” Signal,
28 October 2021, https://signal.org/bigbrother/cd-california-grand-jury/.
Accessed 11 April 2022. What are honeypots?, Kenny, director. What are
honeypots, and how to avoid them. 2021. 1, 1 ed., Kenny (Mental outlaw himself),
2021, disc 0. Odysee,
https://odysee.com/@AlphaNerd:8/what-are-honeypots-and-how-to-avoid-them:6. yes
da proof. “How far is Oui Oui Baggette Land to Borgerland?” Imgur, Henry,
https://imgur.com/a/iTqVRMQ.
