# Algorithms to Live by, and how it ruined my life worldview

Henry Dong (overfl0w) Complete 22-08-14

This summer, I read the book: “Algorithms to live by Brian Christian and Tom
Griffiths.”

Quick disclaimer: I haven’t completed the book yet, but I found it so meaningful
that I wanted to base this around it.

Algorithms to live by, or ATLB is a book about algorithms, and how they can be
integrated into human life. It's a wonderful book, and I would recommend it to
everyone, not just people who are interested in computer science.

Now, let's stop beating around the bush and talk about why I love it. The first
day I read the book, I fell into a rabbit hole so deep I don’t think I could
ever climb out.

The first chapter was about optimal stopping time, which in a nutshell is
finding the best time to stop. A great example that the book gives is the
secretary problem. The way that the secretary problem works is that you are
trying to find a secretary. You are given a list of n people, every person has a
varying skill level (that you don’t know), and your job is to find the best
person with the most skill for the job. There are some restrictions to this, you
cannot go back to a person once you choose to move on, and once you pick a
person, you stop the search.

This problem seems simple but has a great deal of thought, if you pick one
early, then you might be missing out on who could come later, and if you pick
too late, then you might not be getting the best person.

I’m not going to tell you how the book approaches the problem since that’s half
the fun of the problem.

But while I was reading that chapter, I had a thought: “Can I represent the
solution in some sort of algorithm, where a user gives an input, and it returns
a boolean (True Or False) to tell me to pick the person or not”.

There is a solution, and the solution was a rabbit hole.

Lambda Calculus

While reading the book, I wanted to find a way to know to pick, or to not to
pick someone with an algorithm, so I put the book down, and thought for a while.

I remembered watching a video one day, and hearing the video say “It's based on
the **\_** calculus, where based on the same inputs, it will return the same
output”. That sounded to me like it would help, so I booted my computer and
searched up the video (This one if you are curious:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qa8IfEeBJqk )

“... based on Lambda Calculus, which means a function give the same output given
the same input”

Lambda Calculus fits the description of what I wanted, a way that would not
fail, since nobody likes being left with something subpar.

But then another problem arose, I didn’t really know what lambda calculus was. I
know a small part of it from the video, but I didn’t really understand anything
else. I found this really good video on the topic:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eis11j_iGMs It's a really interesting watch if
you want to learn more about lambda calculus.

Now this is where the rabbit hole goes much deeper.

I had another thought: “What else could I represent other than the optimal
stopping problem with lambda calculus”?

It was getting late, so I went to my bed to wind down before sleep, but I
couldn’t get the thought out of my head.

“If Scientists can predict how things are going to happen with a formula, like
when an object is going to hit the ground, then couldn’t we predict anything
with a formula”?

“Since all that lambda calculus is is just variables (A value, like 1, 2, 3),
and a way to apply them, and then return an output, like a boolean or a string,
can we represent the world, and predict how things are going to happen, with
just maths”?

I couldn’t just sit there anymore, I got a sheet of paper out and wrote it down
just in case I would forget it the next morning.

Over that night I thought more about the statement.

At this point, I revised it into a statement:

“We can represent and predict the world with lambda calculus, if the output
result is different than the expected outcome, then the algorithm used is wrong,
either with not enough inputs, or the algorithm is incorrect”.

“Wow! This means I can do so much, I can predict so many things, like if a
person’s name is Steve, if I had all the right parameters (yes, that was an
actual statement by sleep deprived me)”

“This means that I can find when cancer will be cured, and when an asteroid will
crash into earth”

It felt like I had found the solution to all of the world's problems. I could
predict anything and everything.

If the world was really based on lambda calculus, and everything could be
predictable, then I could not deal with all the things that are thrown at me. I
could know if there was going to be a problem,and avoid it. I could find out how
my life goes, and change it before it goes bad.

I really wanted the statement to be true, to have a universe where everything is
predictable, and the statement seemed pretty bulletproof to me. There's even a
catch statement so that if someone proves it wrong, I can point to the fact that
the function might be wrong, and push the problem off till later.

But then, as I thought even more about the statement. The more I thought about
it, the more unprovable it was.

The catch statement wasn’t really helping, since there is no way that we can
prove that if we had enough input variables, and don’t even get me started on
making a correct statement.

Even if we did have correct functions and all the correct input variables, we
would still have to calculate them. Even with a computer, this might take days,
even years. Most likely the problem would pass before we could find the
solution.

Then I fell asleep. The next morning, I thought a little more about it, and my
final verdict on it was that although it's a really interesting statement, it's
not actually that useful.

All in all, it was such a fun and interesting experience to go down that rabbit
hole, and have my worldview get turned upside down.

If there was one thing that I want the readers of this to take away from this
paper/article is that the best books are the ones that take you on an adventure
down a rabbit hole.
