# Why I swiched back to windows (Edited Video Script)

Hello there, its me, overfl0w.

Today, I have a sad announcement. I switched back to windows.

Now, many of you might know me as a linux user, and I am a linux user, but
recently, I just found linux more and more annoying to use.

Most of the things that bug me are small, but it really screams the fact that
linux is missing polish, and that's the main reason I switched.

For example, I usually switch between Gnome and KDE, depending on the task that
I am doing. If I need a lot of window switching and have lots of windows open, I
will use gnome. For everything else, I will go with KDE.

This switch is really what makes the OS un-polished. On Gnome, since I am on
gnome 42, they changed how light and dark mode work. Before, it would be
switching the entire GTK theme, but now it's built in, but themes look different
across apps, some don't respect the dark mode. The thing that is the most
annoying is that some apps still use the GTK3 adwaita theme style. I tried so
many things, but nothing truly solved the problem, and nothing fit into each
other.

When I got sick of gnome looking wacky, I switched to KDE. KDE was mostly fine,
Until I tried to add theming . The second I added theming, things began
breaking. Kdenlive’s background would just go away, and half of it would be
transparent. On KDE, the thing was that things looked consistent, but every app
had some problem with these themes that made them feel out of place.

I have also tried many other desktop environments and apps, but most of them
would just have a messed up theme, because I had gnome 42 installed.

Another example is the base distro. For most of my time on linux, I used Arch.
The arch experience was really good, and there's a reason why I stuck with it
for so long. But Arch had it’s problems as well. Since arch is a minimal distro,
which means that there are fewer things installed by default. Every time I tried
to do something on my arch system, some dependency would be missing, and I would
have to boot up a terminal in order to install the package.

I tried other Linux distros, In fact, I tried mostly all of the big ones, and
why I don't like them

Debian

-Too Old Packages -Package manager is too slow -Has not been stable for me

Debian Based

-Inherits the problems with debian -Most of the time, does not solve the problem

Ubuntu

- Really slow to adopt new features
- Snaps
- Odd and backwards way of doing things

Fedora

-Slow package manager -Outdated tutorials -Bad installer

openSUSE Tumbleweed

-Takes WAYYY to long to install -YaST breaks the second you try to do any
theming -YaST is just bad to use -Package manager takes too long

openSUSE Leap

-Packages are too old -Slow package managers

Arch Linux

- Takes too long to install

EndeavourOS

-Too terminal centric -Filled to the brim with random config utilities

Garuda Linux

-Bloated -No light mode theme -Config tools are annoying

ElementaryOS

-Pantheon will just randomly break -Out of date

pop!\_OS

-Does not stand out -Problems with being an ubuntu derivative

Void Linux

-xbps is confusing, and hard to get -Almost no packages -Nobody makes tutorials
-No software

Those are almost all of the linux distros that I have tried, and all of them had
problems that just made me switch over and over again.

And Finally, Why go back to windows?

Well, We all know that Windows sucks, and it does. Privacy sucks, the installer
sucks, Microsoft is in your face all the time.

So at this point, Windows is just slightly better for me, since most software
works for me, and there's less hassle.

I’m not saying that windows is perfect, but with some tweaks, it can get pretty
close to perfect.

Of course, I am not using the official ISO, since that takes a really long time
to install. The installer is just frankly annoying when it asks you to do
microsoft accounts, and so many other random things. After that, the whole OS
just feels bloated, and makes me want to switch back to linux.

I chose ReviOS, since they had ISO available for me to download, and I used them
before.

This time, I went with the Windows 11 ISO, since I really like the way that
Windows 11 looks, and since all the Microsoft BS is removed, Windows 11 actually
feels fast and slim.

Of course, I don't really like windows, it's not the best for my workflow, and I
have to jump through so many hoops in order to make it good.

So what is the best OS for me, and perhaps for you? Well, I have been eyeing
macOS for a really long time.

I used to be a mac user, I had a macbook, and the entire apple ecosystem. The
more I think about it, the more enjoyable macOS was. There was no bloat on the
system, the setup was easy, software was easy to install. The brew package
manager was quick.

So, I dug up my macbook again, and I tried it out for a week, and it really
reminded me of what I was missing out on.

MacOS is the best of linux and windows mixed together, you get the unix
utilities, and you get large amounts of app support. And best of all, everything
is well integrated.

The only reason why I can't stay on macOS is that the hardware that I have for
it is just underpowered. And no, I do not want to hackintosh.

So, back to the topic of why I switched to Windows. It's because Linux just
needs more polish.
