# PlasmaBook Air

Introducing PlasmaBook Air, the next generation in the Linux laptops. PlasmaBook
is the best choice over other Linux laptops.

Ok, So Advertising things aside, I recently installed Linux on my Macbook Air,
and I am loving it.

Before i tell you about the Linux experience, let’s talk about the macbook
first. This macbook is an Intel model, and because this is a retina version, it
unfortunately has a T2 chip, which means that the drivers are not very well
integrated, and many distro’s just lack support for these models. In recent
Linux kernels, some support has been added for these devices, but they are not
out of the box ready. So if you were thinking of getting one of these, and using
Linux on them bug free, you can forget about it.

More specifically, this is a 2019 MacBook air, with an Intel i5 8210Y, which is
a super low wattage chip. It also has 8 gigs of ram, and 128 gigs of storage.

I used this macbook to start the channel, and after I got my new PC, I started
experimenting with Linux on this macbook. At first I tried flashing and booting
normal distro’s, but most of them failed to boot, or booted with many issues.

So I did a ton of research, and I found the Linux On T2 project, which has tons
of guides and drivers to make these macbooks compatible with Linux. This is a
super awesome project, and you can check them out here:
[https://wiki.t2linux.org/](https://wiki.t2linux.org/)

Now with everything aside, lets talk about the macbook, or the plasmabook, from
now on.

I spent about a whole afternoon setting everything up. I chose EndeavourOS as
the main distro, since I wanted an arch based system, and there was already an
ISO built with all the drivers, so I wouldn't need to get external peripherals.
The install process was pretty straightforward, the only problem that I had was
that the items like the XFCE taskbar looked a little small, since this was a
HiDPI retina display, so I expected that would happen.

The install went perfectly fine, I chose to wipe the entire hard drive and nuke
macOS, since I had no need for macOS anymore, and I wanted this to become the
dedicated plasmabook.

Then I spent the rest of the time setting it up, and then installing drivers for
everything. The end result is really cool, as it's way faster than macOS or
windows could ever be.

Although this is the plasmabook, I tried out gnome on this, and with the
chonkers trackpad, gnome was super smooth.

I did try the new trackpad gestures for KDE 5.25, but they were on wayland, and
wayland was too broken for me. So I stuck with X11 KDE.

So now, Lets talk about why I think that this is the laptop that you want to get
if you want a linux laptop experience.(Although you might not want this specific
config)

The PlasmaBook is light, and has a super high res 16:10 display, perfect for
coding and editing. Many laptops that come with plasma, like the slimbook
usually have a 1080p, or a 1440p display, and this either matches, or beats the
displays in the slimbooks.

Next is the keyboard and trackpad. I can't speak about the keyboard on the
slimbooks, but the keyboard on these macbooks, and especially the butterfly
switches are amazing. I'm typing this out on the plasmabook, and I love them so
much. Everyone knows that the macbook trackpads are the cream of the crop when
it comes to trackpads, and linux is no exception. GNOME is silky smooth. I don't
think anything is coming close at this price range.

Of course, that brings us to another point, the price range. You can find these
macbook airs, and sometimes even pro’s for less than 500$ on ebay, and they are
a really good deal. All you have to do is just install linux on them. The only
competitor in this price range (That is linux native) is the Star Labs Star Lite
MkIV, which uses a celeron, and the display and touchpad come nowhere near the
macbooks.

And my final positive point, is the battery life, although the battery wasn't as
good as it was on macOS (This heavily depends on the task, since linux likes to
push the CPU to the max and ramp the fans, while macOS likes to throttle the CPU
and not turn the fans on), but its still great, and I could definitely get all
day battery life out of linux.Which is something that I could not do on macOS.
(On macOS, Just listening to music on youtube music for an afternoon brought it
down to 40%).

And This is the final point, and probably the deal breaker for many, the raw
performance. The “Highest end” macbook air is a 2020 macbook air is with a
i7-1065NG7, which barely squeezes out a 4500 Cinebench score. That's puny
compared to anything from the slimbook line, and probably is the main reason
that most people don't buy the macs to do this (Other than the software jank.).
My 8210Y feels faster on linux, but gets very hot, and is still not great
compared to something like buying a 500$ Hp and putting linux onto that, which
we will look at next.

Conclusion:

If you have a t2 macbook, install linux on it right now. The experience is way
better than macOS.If you don't, and want a macbook experience without all the
macbook annoyances, get yourself a PlasmaBook

Update: I swiched my desktop enviroment to Pantheon with the GDM screen login
manager, since that gave me the most reliable suspend and locking experiance. I
also love the pantheon desktop enviroment, since the gestures that it has are
super intuitive.
