# Sythe Book Review (7th grade Reading Blurb archive )

So, this book was chosen so that i can meet my goal of choosing more fantasy
books, but I don't really think that this is fantasy enough. It’s more of a
science fiction/dystopian.

So far, I really enjoyed this book, the authors writing style seems to be a top
down/third person view, almost like what it is supposed to be like when you are
gleaned and remain the in thunderhead. Every other chapter switches to a
gleaning, and it really shows how different each scythe is.

While reading this book, I am really intrigued in the idea of “The thunderhead”,
In social studies, we are learning about communism vs capitalism(and of course,
I think both are stupid) and the facts that they are both fundementally flawed
and they only work in a vaccum where all the top figures are not corrupted and
everyone is a working machine that can produce the highest quality work and
beyond every single day.

The thunderhead is solving half of the problem, which is that the top government
figures are corrupt, and the other half is solved by the fact that there are no
use for jobs anymore.

The first way that the thunderhead solves is government corruption, it’s a
pretty interesting idea that an AI that is incorruptible, and does not have the
downsides and the bias that a normal human would, this brings up some questions:
1: Is is possible to corrupt it, if say that the programmers added in something
to profit their family, although this can be solved by making the code of the
thunderhead open source (amazing sign that in 2042, FOSS may be valued more than
it is in 2022)

The book also talks about how the thunderhead can basically manage the whole
world at once, but this brings up another question, Who is hosting the
thunderhead? As the thunderhead evolved from the cloud, and even in 2022, we
have many different cloud solution, Google Drive (Hosted by google, horrible)
Onedrive (ew microsoft ) and other smaller cloud solutions, So who is hosting
the computer that the Thunderhead is ran on, If it was done by each country, it
would be possible to fork the supposedly open source Thunderhead and make it
corrupt.

And yes, I know about the fact that the thunderhead could supposedly host itself
by giving people commands to do something, but this brings us nowhere as it’s
basically recursive, who is going to make thunderhead v1 before the current
thunderhead that will not be corrupt, and can host itself.

The second thing is that jobs are no more, so there is no economic ideology. Of
course, this can't really happen. Something that is pretty prominently shown in
the book is the revival center, When you die (not of gleaning), you get
teleported there and saved, but each time you go there, you get charged a small
fee. Where is this fee going, sure it can go to the thunderhead and it will put
that money somewhere so that it can be used somewhere else.

Going back to the main book and the storyline, it’s pretty good, but since we
are going into a dystopian unit, I just really want to point out that a utopia
can't really exist and only dystopian societies can exist, as every ideology
that we know is flawed in multiple ways.
